---
set: 3
code: 303
layout: code
title: See Other
references:
    "Rails HTTP Status Symbol": ":see_other"
    "Go HTTP Status Constant": "http.StatusSeeOther"
    "Symfony HTTP Status Constant": "Response::HTTP_SEE_OTHER"
    "Python2 HTTP Status Constant": "httplib.SEE_OTHER"
    "Python3+ HTTP Status Constant": "http.client.SEE_OTHER"
    "Python3.5+ HTTP Status Constant": "http.HTTPStatus.SEE_OTHER"
---

The server is redirecting the user agent to a different resource, as
indicated by a URI in the Location header field, which is intended to
provide an indirect response to the original request.

A user agent can perform a retrieval request targeting that URI (a GET
or HEAD request if using HTTP), which might also be redirected, and
present the eventual result as an answer to the original request. Note
that the new URI in the Location header field is not considered
equivalent to the effective request URI.

This status code is applicable to any HTTP method. It is primarily used
to allow the output of a POST action to redirect the user agent to a
selected resource, since doing so provides the information corresponding
to the POST response in a form that can be separately identified,
bookmarked, and cached, independent of the original request.

A 303 response to a GET request indicates that the origin server does
not have a representation of the target resource that can be transferred
by the server over HTTP. However, the Location field value refers to a
resource that is descriptive of the target resource, such that making a
retrieval request on that other resource might result in a
representation that is useful to recipients without implying that it
represents the original target resource. Note that answers to the
questions of what can be represented, what representations are adequate,
and what might be a useful description are outside the scope of HTTP.

Except for responses to a HEAD request, the representation of a 303
response ought to contain a short hypertext note with a hyperlink to the
same URI reference provided in the Location header field.

---

* Source: [RFC7321 Section 6.4.4][1]

[1]: <http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7231#section-6.4.4>
