---
set: 3
code: 304
layout: code
title: Not Modified
references:
    "Rails HTTP Status Symbol": ":not_modified"
    "Go HTTP Status Constant": "http.StatusNotModified"
    "Symfony HTTP Status Constant": "Response::HTTP_NOT_MODIFIED"
    "Python2 HTTP Status Constant": "httplib.NOT_MODIFIED"
    "Python3+ HTTP Status Constant": "http.client.NOT_MODIFIED"
    "Python3.5+ HTTP Status Constant": "http.HTTPStatus.NOT_MODIFIED"
---

A conditional GET or HEAD request has been received and would have
resulted in a [200 OK](/200) response if it were not for the fact that
the condition evaluated to false.

In other words, there is no need for the server to transfer a
representation of the target resource because the request indicates that
the client, which made the request conditional, already has a valid
representation; the server is therefore redirecting the client to make
use of that stored representation as if it were the payload of a
[200 OK](/200) response.

The server generating a 304 response MUST generate any of the following
header fields that would have been sent in a [200 OK](/200) response to
the same request: Cache-Control, Content-Location, Date, ETag, Expires,
and Vary.

Since the goal of a 304 response is to minimize information transfer
when the recipient already has one or more cached representations, a
sender SHOULD NOT generate representation metadata other than the above
listed fields unless said metadata exists for the purpose of guiding
cache updates (e.g., Last-Modified might be useful if the response does
not have an ETag field).

Requirements on a cache that receives a 304 response are defined in
[Section 4.3.4 of RFC7234][2]. If the conditional request originated
with an outbound client, such as a user agent with its own cache sending
a conditional GET to a shared proxy, then the proxy SHOULD forward the
304 response to that client.

A 304 response cannot contain a message-body; it is always terminated by
the first empty line after the header fields.

---

* Source: [RFC7232 Section 4.1][1]

[1]: <http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7232#section-4.1>
[2]: <http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc7234#section-4.3.4>
