---
set: 5
code: 511
layout: code
title: Network Authentication Required
references:
    "Symfony HTTP Status Constant": "Response::HTTP_NETWORK_AUTHENTICATION_REQUIRED"
---

The client needs to authenticate to gain network access.

The response representation SHOULD contain a link to a resource that
allows the user to submit credentials (e.g., with an HTML form).

Note that the 511 response SHOULD NOT contain a challenge or the login
interface itself, because browsers would show the login interface as
being associated with the originally requested URL, which may cause
confusion.

The 511 status SHOULD NOT be generated by origin servers; it is intended
for use by intercepting proxies that are interposed as a means of
controlling access to the network.

Responses with the 511 status code MUST NOT be stored by a cache.

The 511 status code is designed to mitigate problems caused by "captive
portals" to software (especially non-browser agents) that is expecting a
response from the server that a request was made to, not the intervening
network infrastructure. It is not intended to encourage deployment of
captive portals -- only to limit the damage caused by them.

A network operator wishing to require some authentication, acceptance of
terms, or other user interaction before granting access usually does so
by identifying clients who have not done so ("unknown clients") using
their Media Access Control (MAC) addresses.

Unknown clients then have all traffic blocked, except for that on TCP
port 80, which is sent to an HTTP server (the "login server") dedicated
to "logging in" unknown clients, and of course traffic to the login
server itself.

For example, a user agent might connect to a network and make the
following HTTP request on TCP port 80:

``` GET /index.htm HTTP/1.1 Host: www.example.com ```

Upon receiving such a request, the login server would generate a 511
response:

``` HTTP/1.1 511 Network Authentication Required Content-Type: text/html

<html>
  <head>
    <title>Network Authentication Required</title> <meta
    http-equiv="refresh" content="0; url=https://login.example.net/">
  </head> <body>
    <p>You need to <a href="https://login.example.net/"> authenticate
    with the local network</a> in order to gain access.</p>
  </body> </html> ```

Here, the 511 status code assures that non-browser clients will not
interpret the response as being from the origin server, and the META
HTML element redirects the user agent to the login server.

---

* Source: [RFC6585 Section 6][1]

[1]: <http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6585#section-6>
